Hey everyone, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called Code
the Hero Section using Custom Fields.
Check it out.
[MUSIC]
Okay everyone, so
now what we're gonna do is,
start making our homepage
actually dynamic.
We're gonna be actually using
the dashboard, in WordPress, and
we're going to be pulling that
information, into our templates.
So that we can display the information
here, on our screen, but
also make it easy to update the site,
via the dashboard.
And you're gonna start seeing the benefits
pretty much immediately so here we go.
We're gonna go in and
start coding this hero section and
by coding it I mean making it dynamic.
Right now it's static,
we want it to be dynamic.
So let's do it.
Go to your dashboard, or
alternatively you could have
clicked Edit Page on the toolbar.
If I go back, click Edit Page,
you can go straight to this page,
which is actually kind of a bit better.
Okay, so here we have nothing.
What we want to do is
utilize this section, but
first let's go to our code editor.
And what we're gonna do here is start
off right here in the hero section.
We're going to just make
dynamic what we can quickly.
So important parts would
be say right here.
Level one heading.
Right here it's static,
bootstrap to WordPress.
What if we want to change that?
What if we don't want it to be
called Bootstrap to WordPress?
What if we change the course name?
What if I test it out and
find out I have a better course name and
I want to change it and
I don't want to open up the source code?
What if I'm on vacation in Hawaii, and I
wanna change my website name really fast?
I can log in on the Internet and
change it.
That's what I wanna be able to do.
I don't wanna be able to open the code.
So, Watch this.
PHP We're gonna be using a WordPress
function called blog info.
You recognize that one.
And there are a lot of arguments
that we could put in here.
One of them is name.
That is the name of the website.
So I save that, and go back to
the homepage here, Bootstrap to WordPress.
That is now dynamic and
the reason why it is dynamic
is because it's pulling from
the name of the site itself.
So I can go to the dashboard here,
go to Settings and then General.
Site Title.
This is it right here.
So this is where name comes from.
So if I change this Bootstrap to
WordPress, Heeyyyy, and then save that.
That will now reflect.
Well, up here and also right there.
So, right away,
you can start seeing benefits of
how this is actually really cool.
So I'm gonna go back and
change that because that's not the title
of the site, although it is pretty cool.
I'm gonna save that.
Now let's go back to our code.
If I go here, this section, Earn An Extra
$1k to $5k a Month, so on and so forth.
I want that to be dynamic too.
No problem.
I'm gonna copy this or
cut it to my clipboard
because I'm gonna use it.
But I'm gonna do PHP again.
Same thing we're gonna do blog info.
And inside here as an argument.
As a little parameter here in this
function, it's going to be description.
Description actually pulls
from here in the dashboard,
tagline, paste that with
what you want it to be.
Earn an extra 1k to 5k a month by learning
to code your very own responsive and
custom WordPress websites, Save that.
Now, if I refresh, there it is.
It is dynamic.
And also, up here,
in the title that is in the webpage title.
So for
SEO purposes that could be potentially
good, although it is a bit long.
All right, let's go back in.
Now where we're at, are these prices,
I wanna be able to change these prices.
The price can change.
And depending on what you want here,
you wanna be able to easily edit this.
So very simple, but
instead of using
the dashboard's settings tab.
We're gonna actually have to have this
associated with the specific page itself.
So what we're gonna do is use for
this section what is called Custom Fields.
Now go back to that page here.
We're gonna go to the home page.
And up here in the top right,
you'll see screen options.
Make sure Custom Fields is checked.
Now that will allow you
a new section down here.
And this is where we're gonna
be using Custom Fields.
And it's basically the same,
it's basically an array, and
it's using the name and value, kind of key
value pair, that an array would be, and
if you've taken my PHP course,
then you'll know what I'm talking about.
Otherwise, I"m assuming you
know a little bit about PHP.
If you don't know about PHP,
you can still follow along.
You might be a little confused
with some of the terminology,
but you could totally still follow along.
But, I do recommend to checking
out my free PHP course.
Okay.
So what we're gonna do now is
actually create name and value pairs,
add them as variables
to our PHP script and
then pull in the content
into our sections.
Sounds pretty easy.
Right?
That's because it is.
So this is what we're gonna do.
We're going to create
some custom fields here.
So the first one I wanna
create is prelaunch_price.
Now we need to use code conventions
when we, in regarding the name.
We can't use capitals and
spaces and special characters.
Keep it lower case.
No spaces.
Use underscores in replacement of spaces.
So prelaunch_price.
The value?
Well 149.
So we'll say 149.
Now let's add the custom field.
So that will add that one and
give us a new field.
And the next one we wanna
do is launch price.
And then final price.
So let's add those two.
So launch price, and that was 299.
Add the custom field,
and then final price.
And that one was 399, add custom field.
Okay.
Now I'm gonna need to publish this, or
update this because this is
not currently in the database.
I'm gonna update this and
make sure these custom fields are saved,
committed to the database.
Great.
Now, we should be able to access these.
So the way that you can do this,
and I'm gonna use some variables
because it keeps our template clean.
And we can pull the variables in through
out our template, through out our page.
So we don't have to keep writing this same
function over and over and over again.
So it's at a thing here
called Custom Fields.
So this is where we're gonna
put our custom field variables.
Let's say prelaunch_price, we're gonna
use the same naming convention here,
a couple tabs.
This is how you grab the custom fields.
Use a function that's build into
WordPress called get_post_meta.
You like my accent there?
Get_post_meta and
there are a few arguments.
In fact there are three
that we're gonna use.
And one is the, it's not required, but the
page ID that we want to pull this from.
So we need to know the ID of the page
that we're pulling the custom field from.
And that would be the home page and
the easiest way to find out that
ID is by looking in your toolbar,
your address bar.
Post=7, so this page has the ID of seven.
So we know to put here,
get_post_meta 7 and
then comma, we need to pull the name or
the key from the custom field,
using the naming convention we used.
So that would be
prelaunch_price in strings.
And then there's another parameter
here yhat will let us know, or
let the function know if this is
going to be a single item or not.
And that sounds confusing, so right here
in the documentation, the WordPress Codex,
which you will be using a lot.
It's really good,
really descriptive and helps me out
every single time I do WordPress.
So here we go.
We have get_post_meta.
The first parameter is the post_id,
then the key from the actual custom field.
And then, if it is single, so right here.
If it is set to true,
which is the default, I believe.
It will return a single result,
like a string.
If false, or not set,
so actually sorry, the default is if
it is not set which would be false.
Then the function returns in
array of the custom fields.
We wanna be able to
pull this single value.
So we would say this is true.
This is a Boolean Parameter,
so that means true or false.
And this is gonna be true,
because we want just the string
from this one custom field.
Copy that and we're gonna paste it a
couple more times because we're gonna grab
the launch_price.
And then this will obviously
be the same launch_price true.
And then the last time was final_price.
And then change it here one more time.
Great, so now if we save that, now we
should have access to these variables,
cuz they now store the post_meta,
or the custom fields.
So let's go ahead and just use them.
Nice and easy.
If you know PHP,
it's very straightforward.
PHP, right here we're gonna have echo and
then prelaunch_price.
Cool.
I'm just gonna copy this and
replace the launch price
with launch_price and
final price with final_price.
Now save it.
Let's see if it worked.
Go back to your home page and refresh.
There they are.
These are actually dynamic.
Cuz it, now if I were to change,
just to prove it to you,
this to say, 999 and update.
And then go ahead and
check it out on the front end.
Final price will now change to 9.99.
Awesome, there we go.
So I'm gonna change that back to 399.
Now let's head back to our code.
Next thing I want to do here, is I want
to make, well the URL of the button.
And the button text to be easily
editable via custom fields.
So how do we do that?
Very easy.
We're gonna create a couple
more custom fields here.
We're gonna enter a new custom field.
And this is gonna be, course_url.
And then here's where you'll
put a URL to the course,so for
now I'm just gonna say
http://udemy.com/u/bradhussey.
Obviously this would be
the real URL to the course.
And then I'm gonna add another custom
field and it's gonna be button_text.
And then let's say, Enroll now and
then I'm gonna put raquo.
Okay, our custom field, great.
Now update.
Now they should be
committed to the database.
We should now be able to grab
them with our variables.
So we're gonna say course_url,
it's gonna be
get_post_meta and
then again this is page_id 7.
I'm pulling in the course_url and
again will be true.
The last one will be btn_text or
maybe just to be consistent
button_text 7 and
then this one will be button_text, great.
Now we can just easily use them down here.
So here we have our href
we want that to be php echo
course_url.
And then down here,
we want php echo button_text.
Save that,
let's see if it worked on the front end.
There we go.
There it is, these are dynamic,
so all this is dynamic.
So now what if wanted to say,
I wanted to go further,
like save this, I want this to
be editable via custom field.
So I wanted the text and
the button to be editable.
Well, again, really easy,
it's very easy to do.
So we're in the option section,
and it's quite simple.
I'm actually just gonna copy this.
So the strong tag with the text,
and then the other text.
I'm gonna copy that.
I'll actually cut it.
And then we're gonna go
back to our home page here.
Create a custom field.
Let's create a new one and
call it optin_text,
and then we're gonna put that HTML there.
This accepts HTML.
Basic stuff here.
And add that Custom Field, and
then I'm gonna say, optin_button_text.
And that will be Subscribe.
Click here to subscribe.
Add Custom Field.
Let's update that and
then why don't we go ahead and
add that to our list of variables.
No problem.
Right?
This will be optin_text.
Copy this, I'm gonna change
this to optin_text, great, and
then we have one last one, and
that would be the optin_button_text.
And then this is very simple,
optin_button_text,
save that, scroll her down and
then here, in the button,
we'll have php echo, optin_text.
Actually, this is a button, so,
it will be optin_button_text.
And then right here in the lead paragraph,
I'm just gonna have optin_text.
Save it, now that again should be dynamic.
There it is and you can edit that so
easy in the homepage using
custom fields right there.
Great.
So that's it for this lecture but
I'm really excited for
this next one because I am basically
gonna take what we just learned
about custom fields and
we're going to scrap it forever.
We're basically not going to use custom
fields as we just did ever again.
Now you can and I'm kind of trying to,
I'm just joking around a little bit.
You can obviously use
custom fields all you want.
Keep what you already did,
cause this is a good learning,
this is a good method of learning.
It's important to know how this works.
But it's not very user friendly, and I've
found in the past when I've had clients
update their content via custom fields
you can have a lot of custom fields.
You can see how this list
can keep going and going.
And the names aren't very readable.
They're not very pretty to look at,
optin_button_text.
For programmers that's perfectly
normal but for a veterinarian who;s
trying to update their button text,
it's confusing, it doesn't look very good.
Name, value, it's not user friendly.
There's a plugin that I'm
about to introduce to you that
changed my world when it came to
developing WordPress websites.
It's amazing,
I can't wait to show it to you.
So hang on tight and I will see you in
the next lecture, and rock and roll.
[MUSIC]